# Contemporary Issues In Data

# Data Privacy and Control

## Article 1: "Driver’s Licenses, Addresses, Photos: Inside How TikTok Shares User Data"
[https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/24/technology/inside-how-tiktok-shares-user-data-lark.html?searchResultPosition=4]

The article sheds light on TikTok's internal practices regarding user data sharing, revealing the extent to
which personal information is accessible to employees via the Lark messaging platform. It highlights the
alarming scope of data exposure, including driver's licenses and potentially illegal content, raising
significant concerns about privacy and security. The article underscores the challenges faced by TikTok in
managing data integrity and protecting user privacy, particularly amidst growing scrutiny and regulatory
pressures. However, TikTok's response, as outlined in the article, suggests a commitment to addressing these
concerns through initiatives like Project Texas, aimed at enhancing data security and compliance with regulatory
standards.

The revelations regarding TikTok's data sharing practices raise serious questions about user privacy and data
security in the digital age. The article underscores the need for robust regulatory frameworks and oversight
mechanisms to safeguard user data and hold tech companies accountable for their data handling practices. While
TikTok's efforts to address these concerns through initiatives like Project Texas are commendable, more
transparency and accountability are needed to rebuild trust and confidence among users and regulators. 

## Article 2: "TikTok collects a lot of data. But that’s not the main reason officials say it’s a security risk"
[https://edition.cnn.com/2023/03/24/tech/tiktok-ban-national-security-hearing/index.html]

The article provides a nuanced perspective on the TikTok security debate, highlighting the broader geopolitical
tensions and concerns surrounding the app's Chinese ownership. While acknowledging the lack of concrete evidence
linking TikTok to espionage activities, the article underscores the broader distrust of China and the
geopolitical implications of TikTok's operations. It emphasizes the need for evidence-based policymaking and
stronger privacy regulations to address the broader challenges posed by tech companies' data practices, rather
than resorting to blanket bans or restrictive measures without concrete evidence of wrongdoing.

The article presents a compelling argument against the knee-jerk reactions to ban TikTok based on speculative
threats rather than substantive evidence of national security risks. It underscores the importance of evidence
based policymaking and the need to balance security concerns with the principles of privacy and freedom of
expression.  
